== ActiveFactory

<em>A fixture replacement library. With it your specs will become more declarative, uniform and terse.</em>

<b>Feedback will be highly appreciated</b>

* {Google group}[http://groups.google.com/group/active_factory]

== Introduction

ActiveFactory allows you declaratively define
which objects you want to have in a database for your spec.
You can also define associations between the objects and
redefine default values.
Additionally ActiveFactory automatically defines accessor methods for the objects.
The scope of the methods is limited to current spec. So they will not affect you other specs.

  it "Task.incomplete returns only incomplete tasks" do
    models { project - tasks({:complete => 0}, {:complete => 1}) }

    project.tasks.incomplete.should == [tasks[0]]
  end

  it "project displays incomplete tasks" do
    models { my - project - task(:complete => 0) }

    visit project_path(project)

    page.should have_content task.title
  end

These specs require the following configuration:

  class ActiveFactory::Define

    factory :my, :class => User do
      username "my_name"
      password "my_password"

      before_save {
        object.save!
        context.emulate_sign_in object
      }
    end

    factory :project do
      title { "Project #{index} title" }
      due { Time.now }
    end

    factory :task do
      title { "Task #{index} title" }
    end
  end

In the configuration you specify default attribute values for an object,
and in a specific test you may reassign the values for the needs of the test.
Optional block after_build specifies actions that should be done
after object was initialized but before saving it.
If you want to create by the same factory several objects with different values,
you may use blocks.
Method index in those blocks returns index of the object being created.

== Installation

ActiveFactory requires Rails 3 and RSpec 2.

   rails plugin install git@github.com:tarasevich/active_factory.git
   rails g active_factory:install

Now you are ready to add you factories spec/define_factories.rb
and use models {} block in your specs.

<em>Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Alexey Tarasevich, released under the MIT license</em>

== Some Examples

Consider we have factory declarations from introduction secion.

  describe ProjectController do

    it "creates a new project" do
      models { my ; project_ }

      post :create, :project => project_

      Project.all.map(&:title).should == [project_[:title]]
    end
  ...

In previous example factory +my+ in +models+ block causes to emulate login.
+project_+ declares corresponding method inside the spec.
Syntax with uderscore indicates that it's should be just hash
with values taken from the factory declaration.
In our case it will be <code>{:title => "Project 0 title"}</code>

    it "modifies a project's title" do
      models { my - project }

      put :update, :id => project.id, :project => project_(:title => "New Title")

      project.reload.title.should == "New Title"
    end

In this example we again use +my+ to create a user and log in with it.
Additionally we create +Project+ instance using +project+ factory
and define method +project+ locally for the spec.
Finally we use minus sign to create association between user +my+ and +project+.
Active factory iterates through associations of +User+ model and chooses the one that
has +Project+ on the other side.
<code>project_(h)</code> is just syntax sugar for <code>project_.merge(h)</code>